 Wikipedia was launched on January 15, 2001, by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger. Sanger coined its namelll as a portmanteau of wikiand encyclopedia. It was initially an English-language encyclopedia, but versions in other languages were quickly developed. With 6.2million articles, the English Wikipedia is the largest of the more than 300 Wikipedia encyclopedias. Overall, Wikipedia comprises more than55 million articles, attracting 1.7 billion unique visitors per month.Wikipedia has been criticized for its uneven accuracy and for exhibiting systemic bias, including gender bias, with the majority of editorsbeing male.!4 Edit-a-thons have been held to encourage female editors and increase the coverage of womens topics 11 In 2006, Timemagazine stated that the open-door policy of allowing anyone to edit had made Wikipedia the biggest and possibly the best encyclopedia inthe world, and was a testament to the vision of Jim f Jimmy Wales. The projects reputation improved further in the 2010s as it increased effortsto improve its quality and reliability, based on its unique structure, curation and absence of commercial bias. in 2018, Facebook andYouTube announced that they would help users detect fake news by suggesting links to related Wikipedia articles ticles ticles laborative online encyclopedias were attempted before Wikipedia, but none were as successful.!3 Wikipedia began as acomplementary project for Nupedia, a free online English-language encyclopedia project whose articles were written by experts and reviewedunder ewedunder ewedunder ewedunder a formal process.!4 It was founded on March 9, 2000, under the ownership of Bomis, a web portal company. Its main figures wereBomis CEO Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger, editor-in-chief for Nupedia and later Wikipedia 15116 Nupedia was initially licensed under itsown Nupedia Open Content License, but even before Wikipedia was founded, Nupedia switched to the GNU Free Documentation License atthe urging of Richard Stallman 18119Wales is credited with defining the goal of making a publicly editable encyclopedia, while Sanger iscredited with the strategy of using a wiki to reach that goal.201 On January 10, 2001, Sanger proposed on the Nupedia mailing list to create awiki as a feeder project for Nupedia.21Launch and early growthThe domains wikipedia.com and wikipedia.org were registered on on ed on January 12, 2001, 721 and January 13, 201,73 respectively, and Wikipedia441 as a single English-language edition at www.wikipedia.com, 24 and announced by Sanger on the25was launched on January 15, 200Nupedia mailing list 18 Wikipedias policy of neutral point-of-view was codified in its first few months. Otherwise, there were relativelyfew rules initially and Wikipedia operated independently of Nupedia,! Originally, Bomis intended to make Wikipedia a business for profit. or profit. pedia. pedia. s founded on March 9, 2000, under the ownership of Bomis, a web portal company. Its main figures were Bomis CEO Jimmy Wales andLarry Sanger, editor-in-chief for Nupedia and later Wikipedia !15119 Nupedia was initially licensed under its own Nupedia Open ContentLicense, but even before Wikipedia was founded, Nupedia switched to the GNU Free Documentation License at the urging of RichardStallman wales is credited with defining the goal of making a publicly editable encyclopedia, 81191 while Sanger is credited with thestrategy of using a wiki to reach that goal201 On January 10, 2001, Sanger proposed on the Nupedia mailing list to create a wiki as a feederproject for Nupedia. 