23andMe23andMe is a privately held personal genomics and biotechnology company. The company has developed itswhole model around pulling insights from big data to give customers a 360-degree understanding of theirgenetic history.CBACommonwealth Bank of Australia is using big data to analyse customer risk. Using analytics can get betterrisk assessment businesses, ongoing cash flow performance and early warning of risk challenges.Centers for Disease ControlThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC is the national public health institute of the UnitedStates. Its main aim is to protect people health and safety through the control and prevention of diseases.CDC had to rely on doctor reports of influenza outbreaks. CDC was weeks behind in providing vaccines to theaffected patients. Using historical data from the CDC, Google compared search term queries againstgeographical areas that were known to have had flu outbreaks. Google then found forty five terms correlatedwith the outbreak of flu. With this data, CDC can act immediately.    a Air Lines, Inc. is a major American airline with an extensive domestic and international network. Ingeneral the top concern for an airlines would be passengers lost baggage. Delta looked further into their dataand created a solution that would remove the uncertainty of where a passengers bag might be.Energy Future Holdings CorporationEnergy Future Holdings Corporation is an electric utility company. The majority of the companys powergeneration is through coal- and nuclear-power plants. The company used Big data to install smart meters.The smart meters allows the provider to read the meter once every 15 minutes rather than one month.GoogleGoogle constantly develops new products and services that have big data algorithms. Google uses big datato refine its core search and ad-serving algorithms. Google describes that the self-driving car as a big dataapplication. on. on. or Disease ControlThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention CDC is the national public health institute of the UnitedStates. Its main aim is to protect people health and safety through the control and prevention of diseases.CDC had to rely on doctor reports of influenza outbreaks. CDC was weeks behind in providing vaccines to theaffected patients. Using historical data from the CDC, Google compared search term queries againstgeographical areas that were known to have had flu outbreaks. Google then found forty five terms correlatedwith the outbreak of flu. With this data, CDC can act immediately.DeltaDelta Air Lines, Inc. is a major American airline with an extensive domestic and international network. Ingeneral the top concern for an airlines would be passengers lost baggage. Delta looked further into their dataand created a solution that would remove the uncertainty of where a passengers bag might be.     be.Energy Future Holdings CorporationEnergy Future Holdings Corporation is an electric utility company. The majority of the companys powergeneration is through coal- and nuclear-power plants. The company used Big data to install smart meters.The smart meters allows the provider to read the meter once every 15 minutes rather than one month.GoogleGoogle constantly develops new products and services that have big data algorithms. Google uses big datato refine its core search and ad-serving algorithms. Google describes that the self-driving car as a big dataapplication. n. plication. plication. plication. Kreditech is a young tech company headquartered in Hafencity, Hamburg. The European company uses BigData to create a unique credit score for consumers using more than 8000 sources. The analysis also lead to asurprise discovery of correlation between social media behaviour and financial stability.LinkedInLinkedin is a business-oriented social networking service. Founded in December 2002 and launched in 2003,it is mainly used for professional networking. LinkedIn uses big data to develop product offerings such aspeople you may know, jobs you may be interested in, who has viewed my profile and more. re. re. 