 Laser, a device that stimulates atoms or molecules to emit light at particular wavelengths andamplifies that light, typically producing a very narrow beam of radiation. The emission generallycovers an extremely limited range of visible, infrared, or ultraviolet wavelengths. Many differenttypes of lasers have been developed, with highly varied characteristics. Laser is an acronym forlight amplification by the stimulated emission of radiation. ation. e laser is an outgrowth of a suggestion made by Albert Einstein in 1916 that under the propercircumstances atoms could release excess energy as lighteither spontaneously or whenstimulated by light. German physicist Rudolf Walther Ladenburg first observed stimulatedemission in 1928, although at the time it seemed to have no practical use. ical use. harles H. Townes, then at Columbia University in New York City, thought of a way togenerate stimulated emission at microwave frequencies. At the end of 1953, he demonstrated aworking device that focused excited see below Energy levels and stimulated emissionsammonia molecules in a resonant microwave cavity, where they emitted a pure microwavefrequency. Townes named the device a maser, for microwave amplification by the stimulatedemission of radiation. Aleksandr Mikhaylovich Prokhorov and Nikolay Gennadiyevich Basov ofthe P.N. Lebedev Physical Institute in Moscow independently described the theory of maseroperation. For their work all three shared the 1964 Nobel Prize for Physics. Physics. e burst of maser research followed in the mid-1950s, but masers found only a limitedrange of applications as low-noise microwave amplifiers and atomic clocks. In 1957 Townesproposed to his brother-in-law and former postdoctoral student at Columbia University, Arthur L.Schawlow then at Bell Laboratories, that they try to extend maser action to the much shorterwavelengths of infrared or visible light. Townes also had discussions with a graduate student atColumbia University, Gordon Gould, who quickly developed his own laser ideas. Townes andSchawlow published their ideas for an optical maser in a seminal paper in the December 15, 1958,issue of Physical Review. Meanwhile, Gould coined the word laser and wrote a patent application.Whether Townes or Gould should be credited as the inventor of the laser thus became a matter ofintense debate and led to years of litigation. Eventually, Gould received a series of four patentsstarting in 1977 that earned him millions of dollars in royalties. lties. s-Schawlow proposal led several groups to try building a laser. The Gould proposalbecame the basis of a classified military contract. Success came first to Theodore H. Maiman, whotook a different approach at Hughes Research Laboratories in Malibu, California. He fired brightpulses from a photographers flash lamp to excite chromium atoms in a crystal of synthetic ruby, amaterial he chose because he had studied carefully how it absorbed and emitted light andcalculated that it should work as a laser. On May 16, 1960, he produced red pulses from a ruby rodabout the size of a fingertip. In December 1960 Ali Javan, William Bennett, Jr., and DonaldHerriott at Bell Labs built the first gas laser, which generated a continuous infrared beam from amixture of helium and neon. In 1962 Robert N. Hall and coworkers at the General ElectricResearch and Development Center in Schenectady, New York, made the first semiconductor laser. r laser. r laser. r laser. r laser. 