 Binary Search on Uncommon Data StructuresThis original problem is titled My Ancestor and was used in theThailand ICPC National Contest 2009. Abridged problem description Given a weighted family tree of upto N 80K vertices with a special trait Vertex values are increasingfrom root to leaves. Find the ancestor vertex closest to the root from a starting vertex vthat has weight at least P. There are up to Q  20K such offline queries. Examine Figure 3.3left. If P  4, then the answer is the vertex labeled with B with value 5as it is the ancestor of vertex v that is closest to root A and has avalue of  4. If P  7, then the answer is C, with value 7.lf P9, there is no answer.  answer.  no answer. The na ive solution is to perform a linear ON scan per queryStarting from the given vertex v, we move up the family tree untilwe reach the first vertex whose direct parent has value  P or untilwe reach the root. If this vertex has value  P and it is not vertex vitself, we have found the solution. As there are Q queries, thisapproach runs in OQN the input tree can be a sorted linked list, orrope, of length N and will get a TLE as N s 80K and Q s 20K. A better solution is to store all the 20K queries we do not have toanswer them immediately. Traverse the tree just once starting from the root using the ONpreorder tree traversal algorithm Section 4.7.2.  n 4.7.2.  .7.2. This preorder tree traversal is slightly modified to remember thepartial root-to-current-vertex sequence as it executes. The array is always sorted because the vertices along the root-to-current-vertex path have increasing weights, see Figure 3.3 right. The preorder tree traversal on the tree shown in Figure 3.3 leftproduces the following partial root-to-current-vertex sorted array3, 3, 5, 3, 5, 7, 3, 5, 7, 8, backtrack, 3, 5, 7, 9, backtrack,backtrack, backtrack, 3, 8, backtrack, 3, 6, 3, 6, 20, backtrack,3, 6, 10, and finally 3, 6, 10, 20, backtrack, backtrack, backtrackdone.  rackdone.  . During the preorder traversal, when we land on a queried vertex,we can perform a OlogN binary search to be precise lowerbound on the partial root-to-current-vertex weight array to obtainthe ancestor closest to the root with a value of at least P. recordingthese solutions. Finally, we can perform a simple OQ iteration to output theresults. The overall time complexity of this approach is OQlogN, which isnow manageable given the input bounds.  unds.  s.Bisection Method We have discussed the applications of Binary Searches in findingitems in static sorted sequences. However, the binary search principle4 can also be used to find theroot of a function that may be difficult to compute directly. Example You buy a car with loan and now want to pay the loan inmonthly installments of d dollars for m months. Suppose the value of the car is originally v dollars and the bankcharges an interest rate of i for any unpaid loan at the end of eachmonth.  onth.  . What is the amount of money d that you must pay per month to 2digits after the decimal point Suppose d  576.19, m  2, v  1000, and i  10. After one month, your debt becomes 1000 x 1.1 - 576.19 523.81. After two months, your debt becomes 523.81 x1.1 - 576.19  0. Ifwe are only given m  2, v  1000, and i  10, how would wedetermine that d  576.19n other words, find the root d such that the debt payment functionfd,m, v, i  0.   i  0.   i  0.  words, find the root d such that the debt payment functionfid.m, v, i 0.Binary Search the AnswerThe abridged version of UVa 11935 - Through the Desert is asfollows Imagine that you are an explorer trying to cross a desert. You use a jeep with a large enough fuel tank  initially full. You encounter a series of events throughout your journey such asdrive that consumes fuel, experience gas leak further reducesthe amount of fuel left, encounter gas station allowing you torefuel to the original capacity of your jeeps fuel tank, encountermechanic fixes all leaks, or reach goal done. You need to determine the smallest possible fuel tank capacity foryour jeep to be able to reach the goal. The answer must be precise to three digits after decimal point. If we know the jeeps fuel tank capacity, then this problem is just asimulation problem.  .  m. From the start, we can simulate each event in order and determineif the goal can be reachedwithout running out of fuel. The problem is that we do not know thejeeps fuel tank capacitythis is the value that we are looking for. From the problem description, we can compute that the range ofpossible answers is between 0.000..10000.000, with 3 digits ofprecision. However, there are 10M such possibilities. Trying each value sequentially will get us a TLE verdict.  ct.  