Who uses big data Walmart does! A leader in many industries, Walmart is also a leader when it comes to bigdata analytics. As the volume of data continues to pile up, Walmart continues to use it to its advantage, analyzingeach aspect of the store to gain a real-time view of workflow across each store worldwide. In every department ofthe mega corporation, data analytics impact day to day operations. Over time thigimpacts key policy decisions,along with profits. From pharmacy efficiency to product assortment and supply chain management, Walmartcontinues to set the mark with its robust collection of data.Walmart is bullish on big data  especially when it comes to finding ways to better serve its shoppers. Bigdata volume continues to grow, but Walmart is using it to the companys  and its customers  advantage.By analyzing the robust information flowing throughout its operations, the discounter has gained a real-timeview of workflow across its pharmacy, distribution centers, stores and e-commerce, according to a companyblog.    blog. blog. panyblog.Big data volume continues to grow, but Walmart is using it to the companys  and its customers advantage. By analyzing the robust information flowing throughout its operations, the discounterhas gained a real-time view of workflow across its pharmacy, distribution centers, stores ande-commerce, according to a company blog.Here are five ways that Walmart is using big data to enhance, optimize and customize theshopping experience xperience xperience perience1. To make Walmart pharmacies more efficient. By analyzing simulations, the discount giant canunderstand how many prescriptions are filled in a day, and determine the busiest times duringeach day or month. Big data also helps Walmart schedule associates more efficiently, and reducethe time and labor needed to fill perceptions.2. To improve store checkout. While it is still only testing the process, Walmart is using predictiveanalytics to anticipate store demand and determine how many associates are needed to manregisters. The data also reveals the best form of checkout at each store traditional stations orself-checkout. kout. -checkout.3. To manage the supply chain. The company uses simulations to track the number of steps fromthe dock to the store. The result more optimized routes to the shipping dock. The strategy alsopinpoints the number of times a product gets touched along the way to the customer. Big data alsoreveals transportation lanes and routes for the companys fleet of trucks. This insight helpsWalmart keep transportation costs down and more accurately schedule driver times, according tothe blog. othe blog. imize product assortment. By analyzing customer preferences and shopping patterns,Walmart can optimize how to stock shelves and display merchandise. Big data also providesinsight into new items, discontinued products and which brands to carry, the blog said.5. To personalize the shopping experience. By analyzing shoppers preferences, Walmart candevelop a more consistent, tailored shopping experience. If a customer is shopping for babyproducts for example, Walmart can use data analytics to anticipate their needs then createpersonalized mobile rollback deals for these shoppers. s. pers.Whether its analyzing the transportation route for a supply chain or using data to optimize pricing,big data analytics will continue to be a key way for Walmart to enhance the customer experience,according to the company. mpany. 