 5. Though this is rare in modern programming contests, do notassume that the input will always be nicely formatted if the problemdescription does not explicitly state it especially for a badly writtenproblem. Try inserting additional whitespace spaces, tabs in the input andtest if your code is still able to obtain the values correctly withoutcrashing. However, after carefully following all these steps, you may still getnon-AC verdicts. In ICPC, you and your team can actually considerthe judges verdict and the leader board usually available for thefirst four hours of the contest in determining your next course ofaction. In lO 2010-2012, contestants have a limited number of tokens touse for checking the correctness of their submitted code against thesecret test cases. With more experience in such contests, you willbe able to make better judgments and choices.    hoices. Tip 6 Practice and More Practice Competitive programmers, like real athletes, must train regularlyand keep programmingfit. Thus in our second last tip, we provide a list of several websiteswith resources that can help improve your problem solving skill.  l. We believe that success comes as a result of a continuous effort tobetter yourself. The University of Valladolid UVa, from Spain Online Judge 47contains past ACM contest problems Locals, Regionals, and up toWorld Finals plus problems from other sources, including variousproblems from contests hosted by UVa. You can solve these problems and submit your solutions to theOnline Judge. The correctness of your program will be reported assoon as possible. Try solving the problems mentioned in this book andyou might see your name on the top-500 authors rank list someday-.  y-.  -. As of 24 May 2013, one needs to solve  542 problems to be in thetop-500. Steven is ranked 27 for solving 1674 problems while Felixis ranked 37 for solving 1487 problems out of  149008 UVa usersand a total of  4097 problems. UVas sister online judge is the ACM ICPC Live Archive 33 thatcontains almost all recent ACM ICPC Regionals and World Finalproblem sets since year 2000. Train here if you want to do well in future ICPCs. Note that inOctober 2011, about hundreds of Live Archive problems includingthe ones listed in the second edition of this book are mirroredin the UVa Online Judge.  e.  Judge. TopCoder arranges frequent Single Round Match SRM 32 thatconsists of a few problems to be solved in 1-2 hours. After thecontest, you are given the chance to challenge other contestantscode by supplying tricky test cases. This online judge uses a rating system red, yellow, blue, etccoders to reward contestants who are really good at problemsolving with a higher rating as opposed to more diligent contestantswho happen to solve a higher number of easier problems.  m Work for ICPC This last tip is not something that is easy to teach, but here aresome ideas that may be worth trying for improving your teamsperformance Practice coding on blank paper. This is useful when yourteammate is using the computer. When it is your turn to use thecomputer, you can then just type the code as fast as possible ratherthan spending time thinking in front of the computer. The submit and print strategy If your code gets an AC verdict,ignore the printout. If it still is not AC, debug your code using thatprintout and let your teammate uses the computer for otherproblem. Beware Debugging without the computer is not aneasy skill to master. If your teammate is currently coding his algorithm, preparechallenges for his code by preparing hard corner-case test datahopefully his code passes all those.  .  .   those. The X-factor Befriend your teammates outside of training sessionsand contests.Getting Started The Easy Problems Note You can skip this section if you are a veteran participant ofprogramming contests. This section is meant for readers who arenew with competitive programming.  f a Programming Contest Problem Background storyproblem description. Usually, the easierproblems are written to deceive contestants and made to appeardifficult, for example by adding extra information to create adiversion. Contestants should be able to filter out these unimportant detailsand focus on the essential ones. For example, the entire openingparagraphs except the last sentence in UVa 579 - ClockHands areabout the history of the clock and is completely unrelated to theactual problem. However, harder problems are usually written as succinctly aspossiblethey are already difficult enough without additionalembellishment.  t.  