 CrawlerA crawler is a computer program that automatically searches documents on the Web. Crawlers are primarily programmedfor repetitive actions so that browsing is automated. Search engines use crawlers most frequently to browse the internetand build an index. Other crawlers search different types of information such as RSS feeds and email addresses. The termcrawler comes from the first search engine on the Internet the Web Crawler. Synonyms are also Bot or Spider. Themost well known webcrawler is the Googlebot. ooglebot. ooglebot. a crawler workIn principle, a crawler is like a librarian. It looks for information on the Web, which it assigns to certain categories, and thenindexes and catalogues it so that the crawled information is retrievable and can be evaluated.The operations of these computer programs need to be established before a crawl is initiated. Every order is thus definedin advance. The crawler then executes these instructions automatically. An index is created with the results of the crawler,which can be accessed through output software.The information a crawler will gather from the Web depends on the particular instructions. ructions. ructions. onsThe classic goal of a crawler is to create an index. Thus crawlers are the basis for the work of search engines. They firstscour the Web for content and then make the results available to users. Focused crawlers, for example, focus on current,content-relevant websites when indexing.Web crawlers are also used for other purposese Price comparison portals search for information on specific products on the Web, so that prices or data can becompared accurately.e Inthe area of data mining, a crawler may collect publicly available e-mail or postal addresses of companies.Web analysis tools use crawlers or spiders to collect data for page views, or incoming or outbound links.e Crawlers serve to provide information hubs with data, for example, news sites. s sites. s sites. s sites. of a crawlerThe most well known crawler is the Googlebot, and there are many additional examples as search engines generally usetheir own web crawlers. For examplee BingbotSlurp BotDuckDuckBotBaiduspiderYandex BotSogou Spidere  Exabote  Alexa Crawler s. ScraperUnlike a scraper, a crawler only collects and prepares data. Scraping is, however, a black hat technique,which aims to copy data in the form of content from other sites to place it that way or a slightly modifiedform of it on ones own website. While a crawler mostly deals with metadata that is not visible to theuser at first glance, a scraper extracts tangible content.Blocking a crawlerIf you dont want certain crawlers to browse your website, you can exclude their user agent usingrobots.txt. However, that cannot prevent content from being indexed by search engines. The noindexmeta tag or the canonical tag serves better for this purpose. ose. ose. ose. ose. ose. 