 Nearly all great ideas follow a similar creative process and this article explains how this process works.Understanding this is important because creative thinking is one of the most useful skills you can possess.Nearly every problem you face in work and in life can benefit from innovative solutions, lateral thinking, andcreative ideas.Anyone can learn to be creative by using these five steps. Thats not ie say being creative is easy. Uncoveringyour creative genius requires courage and tons of practice. However, this five-step approach should helpdemystify the creative process and illuminate the path to more innovative thinking. nking. nking. nking.  in Need of a Creative SolutionIn the 1870s, newspapers and printers faced a very specific and very costly problem. Photography was a new and exciting mediumat the time. Readers wanted to see more pictures, but nobody could figure out how to print images quickly and cheaply.For example, if a newspaper wanted to print an image in the 1870s, they had to commission an engraver to etch a copy of thephotograph onto a steel plate by hand. These plates were used to press the image onto the page, but they often broke after just a fewuses. This process of photoengraving, you can imagine, was remarkably time consuming and expensive. expensive. expensive. expensive. expensive. ho invented a solution to this problem was named Frederic Eugene Ives. He went on to become a trailblazerin the field of photography and held over 70 patents by the end of his career. His story of creativity and innovation,which I will share now, is a useful case study for understanding the 5 key steps of the creative process.A Flash of InsightIves got his start as a printers apprentice in Ithaca, New York. After two years of learning the ins and outs of theprinting process, he began managing the photographic laboratory at nearby Cornell University. sity. sity.  of the printing process, he began managing the Ives got his start as a printers apprentice in Ithaca, New Yorphotographic laboratory at nearby Cornell University, He spent the rest of the decade experimenting with new photography techniques and learning about cameras,printers, and optiesIn 1881, Ives had a flash of insight regarding a better printing technique ique ique  After two years of learning the ins and outs of the printing process, he began managing thephotographic laboratory at nearby Cornell University, He spent the rest of the decade experimenting with new photography techniques and learning about cameras,printers, and optics.In 1881, Ives had a flash of insight regarding a better printing technique echnique. echnique. 