 The Idea in PracticeThe creative process used by Frederic Eugene Ives offers a perfect example of these five steps inaction. First, Ives gathered new material. He spent two years working as a printers apprentice and then fouryears running the photographic laboratory at Cornell University. These experiences gave him a lot ofmaterial to draw upon and make associations between photography and printing. g. ves began to mentally work over everything he learned. By 1878, Ives was spending nearlyall of his time experimenting with new techniques. He was constantly tinkering and experimentingwith different ways of putting ideas together.Third, Ives stepped away from the problem. In this case, he went to sleep for a few hours before hisflash of insight. Letting creative challenges sit for longer periods of time can work as well. Regardlessof how long you step away, you need to do something that interests you and takes your mind off of theproblem.  together. is idea returned to him. Ives awoke with the solution to his problem laid out before him. Ona personal note, I often find creative ideas hit me just as I am lying down for sleep. Once I give mybrain permission to stop working for the day, the solution appears easily.Finally, Ives continued to revise his idea for years. In fact, he improved so many aspects of theprocess he filed a second patent. This is a critical point and is often overlooked. It can be easy to fallin love with the initial version of your idea, but great ideas always evolve. evolve. ive process is the act of making new connections between old ideas. Thus, we can say creativethinking is the task of recognizing relationships between concepts.One way to approach creative challenges is by following the five-step process of 1 gathering material, 2intensely working over the material in your mind, 3 stepping away from the problem, 4 allowing the idea tocome back to you naturally, and 5 testing your idea in the real world and adjusting it based on feedback.Being creative isnt about being the first or only person to think of an idea. More often, creativity is aboutconnecting ideas. . . ative process is the act of making new connections between old ideas. Thus, we can say creativethinking is the task of recognizing relationships between concepts.One way to approach creative challenges is by following the five-step process of 1 gathering material, 2intensely working over the material in your mind, 3 stepping away from the problem, 4 allowing the idea tocome back to you naturally, and 5 testing your idea in the real world and adjusting it based on feedback.Being creative isnt about being the first or only person to think of an idea. More often, creativity is aboutconnecting ideas. 