 While lasers quickly caught the public imagination, perhaps for their similarity to the heat rays ofscience fiction, practical applications took years to develop. A young physicist named IrneeDHaenens, while working with Maiman on the ruby laser, joked that the device was a solutionlooking for a problem, and the line lingered in the laser community for many years. Townes andSchawlow had expected laser beams to be used in basic research and to send signals through air orspace. Gould envisioned more powerful beams capable of cutting and drilling many materials. Akey early success came in late 1963 when two researches at the University of Michigan, EmmettLeith and Juris Upatnieks, used lasers to make the first three-dimensional holograms seeholography. olography. on lasers were the first lasers with broad commercial applications. Because they couldbe adjusted to generate a visible red beam instead of an infrared beam, they found immediate useprojecting straight lines for alignment, surveying, construction, and irrigation. Soon eye surgeonswere using pulses from ruby lasers to weld detached retinas back in place without cutting into theeye. The first large-scale application for lasers was the laser scanner for automated checkout insupermarkets, which was developed in the mid-1970s and became common a few years later.Compact disc audio players and laser printers for personal computers soon followed. lowed. lowed. ars later. ars later. ars later. ve become standard tools in diverse applications. Laser pointers highlight presentationpoints in lecture halls, and laser target designators guide smart bombs to their targets. Lasers weldrazor blades, write patterns on objects on production lines without touching them, removeunwanted hair, and bleach tattoos. Laser rangefinders in space probes profiled the surfaces of Marsand the asteroid Eros in unprecedented detail. In the laboratory, lasers have helped physicists tocool atoms to within a tiny fraction of a degree of absolute zero.        