Non-Linear DS with Built-in Libraries
For some problems, linear storage is not the best way to organize data. With the efficient
implementations of non-linear data structures shown below, you can operate on the data in
a quicker fashion, thereby speeding up the algorithms that rely on them.
For example, if you need a dynamic11 collection of pairs (e.g. key → value pairs), using
C++ STL map below can provide you O(log n) performance for insertion/search/deletion
operations with just a few lines of code (that you still have to write yourself), whereas
storing the same information inside a static array of structs may require O(n) insertion/
search/deletion, and you will need to write the longer traversal code yourself.
• Balanced Binary Search Tree (BST): C++ STL map/set (Java TreeMap/TreeSet)
The BST is one way to organize data in a tree structure. In each subtree rooted at x,
the following BST property holds: Items on the left subtree of x are smaller than x
and items on the right subtree of x are greater than (or equal to) x. This is essentially
an application of the Divide and Conquer strategy (also see Section 3.3). Organizing
the data like this (see Figure 2.2) allows for O(log n) search(key), insert(key),
findMin()/findMax(), successor(key)/predecessor(key), and delete(key) since
in the worst case, only O(log n) operations are required in a root-to-leaf scan (see
[7, 5, 54, 12] for details). However, this only holds if the BST is balanced.
Implementing bug-free balanced BSTs such as the Adelson-Velskii Landis (AVL)12 or
Red-Black (RB)13 Trees is a tedious task and is difficult to achieve in a time-constrained
contest environment (unless you have prepared a code library beforehand, see Section
9.29). Fortunately, C++ STL has map and set (and Java has TreeMap and TreeSet)
which are usually implementations of the RB Tree which guarantees that major BST
operations like insertions/searches/deletions are done in O(log n) time. By mastering
these two C++ STL template classes (or Java APIs), you can save a lot of precious
coding time during contests! The difference between these two data structures is simple:
the C++ STL map (and Java TreeMap) stores (key → data) pairs whereas the C++ STL set (and Java TreeSet) only stores the key. For most (contest) problems, we use
a map (to really map information) instead of a set (a set is only useful for efficiently
determining the existence of a certain key). However, there is a small drawback. If we
use the library implementations, it becomes difficult or impossible to augment (add
extra information to) the BST. Please attempt Exercise 2.3.5* and read Section 9.29
for more details.
Heap: C++ STL priority queue (Java PriorityQueue)
The heap is another way to organize data in a tree. The (Binary) Heap is also a binary
tree like the BST, except that it must be a complete14 tree. Complete binary trees
can be stored efficiently in a compact 1-indexed array of size n + 1, which is often
preferred to an explicit tree representation. For example, the array A = {N/A, 90, 19,
36, 17, 3, 25, 1, 2, 7} is the compact array representation of Figure 2.3 with index 0
ignored. One can navigate from a certain index (vertex) i to its parent, left child, and
right child by using simple index manipulation:  i
2
, 2 × i, and 2× i + 1, respectively.
These index manipulations can be made faster using bit manipulation techniques (see
Section 2.2): i >> 1, i << 1, and (i << 1) + 1, respectively.
Instead of enforcing the BST property, the (Max) Heap enforces the Heap property:
in each subtree rooted at x, items on the left and right subtrees of x are smaller than
(or equal to) x (see Figure 2.3). This is also an application of the Divide and Conquer
concept (see Section 3.3). The property guarantees that the top (or root) of the heap
is always the maximum element. There is no notion of a ‘search’ in the Heap (unlike
BSTs). The Heap instead allows for the fast extraction (deletion) of the maximum
element: ExtractMax() and insertion of new items: Insert(v)—both of which can
be easily achieved by in a O(log n) root-to-leaf or leaf-to-root traversal, performing
swapping operations to maintain the (Max) Heap property whenever necessary (see
[7, 5, 54, 12] for details).
The (Max) Heap is a useful data structure for modeling a Priority Queue, where the
item with the highest priority (the maximum element) can be dequeued (ExtractMax()) and a new item v can be enqueued (Insert(v)), both in O(log n) time. The implementation15
of priority queue is available in the C++ STL queue library (or Java
PriorityQueue). Priority Queues are an important component in algorithms like
Prim’s (and Kruskal’s) algorithms for the Minimum Spanning Tree (MST) problem
(see Section 4.3), Dijkstra’s algorithm for the Single-Source Shortest Paths (SSSP)
problem (see Section 4.4.3), and the A* Search algorithm (see Section 8.2.5).
This data structure is also used to perform partial sort in the C++ STL algorithm
library. One possible implementation is by processing the elements one by one and
creating a Max16 Heap of k elements, removing the largest element whenever its size
exceeds k (k is the number of elements requested by user). The smallest k elements
can then be obtained in descending order by dequeuing the remaining elements in the
Max Heap. As each dequeue operation is O(log k), partial sort has O(n log k) time
complexity17. When k = n, this algorithm is equivalent to a heap sort. Note that
although the time complexity of a heap sort is also O(n log n), heap sorts are often
slower than quick sorts because heap operations access data stored in distant indices
and are thus not cache-friendly.